==============
Personal Pages
==============

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`Web Sites <websites>` > Friends

.. container:: newbanner

   Ralph Carmichael Â 

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Personal Pages of Friends and Colleagues
      :name: personal-pages-of-friends-and-colleagues

Most of these are cyberspace friends I have never met in person.

`Chris Anderson <https://www.longtail.com>`__

Chris is an editor at Wired and wrote the books The Long Tail and Free.
You can also spot him at `DIY Drones <http://diydrones.com/>`__, for
amateur builders of unmanned aerial vehicles.

`Douglas Arnold <http://www.ima.umn.edu/~arnold/>`__

Douglas keeps an excellent numerical methods page

`Genick Bar-Meir <http://www.potto.org/genick.php>`__

Dr. Bar-Meir is the founder of the `Potto
Project <http://www.potto.org/>`__ web site, where students of
gasdynamics may download textbooks, software and tables free of charge.
Over a million textbooks of gasdynamics have been downloaded from the
Potto Project site.

`Steven Baum <http://stommel.tamu.edu/~baum/>`__

Steven Baum is a great collector of information on \'how to do things\'.
I find a number of his pages very informative.

`Tom Benson <http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/K-12/airplane/benson>`

Tom wrote the original code for VuCalc, one of the programs on the PDAS
disc. He has lots of pages on the general subject of Beginners Guides to
Aeronautics.

`Paul Burke <http://home.roadrunner.com/~pjburke1011/>`__

Paul has Seriously Aeronautical Stuff! One of the best pictures I have
seen showing the graphical approach to computing the mean aerodynamic
chord of a complex wing.

`John Burkardt <https://people.sc.fsu.edu/~jburkardt/>`__

John has a great collection of information. I am drawn to the section
with numerous examples of useful source code and algorithms in Fortran
and other languages. Be sure to check the *point* at the end.

`Winchell D. Chung, Jr. <http://www.projectrho.com>`__

This site goes into interesting uses of nomograms, especially in the
context of board games.

`Barry Clarke <http://barryispuzzled.com>`__

Barry does puzzles for the Daily Telegraph

`Peter Coles <https://telescoper.wordpress.com/>`__

Peter writes a blog called In the Dark, about the universe, and all that
surrounds it.

`Mark Crislip <http://edgydoc.com>`__

Mark produces QuackCast and other enterprises.

`Frank da Cruz <http://www.columbia.edu/~fdc/>`__

Us old-timers remember Frank da Cruz from Kermit (the program, not the
frog). Today, I use his guide to international postal addresses to help
me get my mail labelled properly.

`Richard Dawkins <http://www.richarddawkins.net>`__

One of my favorite authors; a voice of sanity and reason.

`Ron Doerfler <http://www.myreckonings.com/>`__

Ron is the author of *Dead Reckoning: Calculating Without Instruments*
and the `Dead Reckoning <http://www.myreckonings.com/wordpress/>`__
blog. I found the essay on creating nomograms with the
`Pynomo <http://www.pynomo.com/>`__ software very interesting.

Earl Einhorn

Earl makes gorgeous pictures with an inkjet printer and Fortran. Oh-oh,
on 13 August 2009, the old web site seems to be gone. Aha, as of Jan
2014, you can see his work on Facebook and LinkedIn.

`Fred Espenak <http://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/eclipse>`

Fred runs the eclipse site at NASA Goddard

`Thomas Friedman <https://www.thomaslfriedman.com/>`__

Tom is the author of The World is Flat.

`Bill Gailbraith <http://www.holycows.net/>`__

Bill operates Holy Cows, an aeronautical consulting firm that is
developing `Datcom+ <http://www.holycows.net/datcom/>`__, which adds
graphical pre- and post-processing to Digital Datcom.

`John Goyvaerts <http://www.jgsoft.com>`__

John is the author of EditPad, which is so much better than NotePad that
I have made it the default editor on my Windows machines. He has a
number of other good programs and an interesting blog known as
`Shareware Beach <http://www.shareware-beach.com/>`__.

`Roland
Gunesch <http://www.math.uni-hamburg.de/home/gunesch/index_en>`

Roland Gunesch has several interesting entries on entropy and dynamical
systems. He has an excellent series of course notes on calculus online.

`George Hart <http://www.georgehart.com>`__

George has lots of material related to polyhedra and other mathematical
items of interest.

`Tilman Hausherr <http://home.snafu.de/tilman/>`__

Tilman is the author of Xenu, the program I use to check the validity of
the links on my web pages. He is also a critic of dangerous cults, such
as Scientology.

`Martin Hegedus <http://www.hegedusaero.com/>`__

For years, Martin had an office next to mine at Nielsen Engineering. Now
he has started his own company to build tools for aerodynamic analysis
and design. One product, *Aero Troll*, is available for download.

`Ian Hutchinson <http://hutchinson.belmont.ma.us/tth/mml/>`__

Ian is a pioneer in putting math on the web, and has written TTM, a
procedure that translates TeX into MathML.

`Paul Johnson <http://www.airfieldmodels.com/>`__

Paul maintain the web site `Airfield
Models <http://www.airfieldmodels.com/>`__ for model builders and
lovers.

`Marcus
Karolewski <http://sites.google.com/site/kalypsosimulation/Home/about-the-author/>`__

Marcus is the author of Tracer, a utility that I use to digitize charts
and figures from printed sources.

`Salman Khan <http://www.khanacademy.org/>`__

Salman Khan operates the Khan Academy with hundreds, even thousands of
video lectures on math, science, economics\...

`Don Lancaster <http://www.tinaja.com/>`__

Don has PostScript info and lots of stuff about building various
widgets. And debunking pseudoscience.

`Brian Livingston <http://www.windowssecrets.com/>`__

Brian has written many good books that help people with their problems
with Microsoft Windows.

`Sarah Mabrouk <http://www.frc.mass.edu/smabrouk/>`__

Sarah has information and links to other sites having to do with
mathematical education.

`Bill
Mason <http://www.aoe.vt.edu/people/faculty/emeritus/whmason>`

Bill teaches (emeritus) aeronautical engineering at Virginia Tech and
has many pages of detailed explanations of aeronautical topics.

`Alan Miller <http://users.bigpond.net.au/amiller/>`__

There is a treasure house of wonderful Fortran code at Alan Miller\'s
web site. Try `this <http://jblevins.org/mirror/amiller/>`__ mirror for
now.

`Ross Moore <http://www.maths.mq.edu.au/~ross/>`__

Ross maintains latex2html, a program that I have used to create web
pages that contain mathematical equations using GIF images for the
equations.

`PZ Myers <https://scienceblogs.com/pharyngula/>`__

PZ teaches biology at U. Minn (Morris) and keeps the web site and blog
called Pharyngula.

`Jakob Nielsen <http://www.useit.com>`__

Jakob publishes a Web Usability guide at useit.com that is very helpful
for web page designers

`Stuart
Norris <http://people.sc.fsu.edu/~tplewa/Fortran/num_meth>`

Stuart keeps lots of links to numerical methods, especially in Fortran.

`Abimbola Olowofoyeku <http://www.greatchief.plus.com/>`__

Also known as The African Chief. A frequent contributor to programming
newsgroups. His contributions are accurate and to the point.

`Steve Pietrobon <http://www.sworld.com.au>`__

Steve coded the equations for the upper atmosphere (>86km) that I used
in the Standard Atmosphere section.

`Jerry Pournelle <https://www.jerrypournelle.com>`__

Jerry writes the Chaos Manor column for Dr. Dobbs magazine.

`Tom Pulliam <https://people.nas.nasa.gov/~pulliam/home>`

When he is not hiking or skiing, Tom is a resident guru on computational
fluid dynamics at NASA Ames and Stanford.

`Michael Quinion <http://www.worldwidewords.org>`__

Michael writes the World Wide Words newsletter.

`Dan Raymer <http://www.aircraftdesign.com>`__

Dan has an interesting site relating to airplane design. When people ask
me about books on aeronautics, I send them to Dan\'s book list.

`James Randi <https://web.randi.org>`__

Randi is indeed Amazing.

`Eric Raymond <http://www.catb.org/~esr/>`__

Author of The Cathedral and the Bazaar and Homesteading the Noosphere

`David Reed <http://www.reed.com/dpr>`

Info on Open Spectrum and the future of wireless networks

`Chris Rorres <http://www.cs.drexel.edu/~crorres/>`__

Chris has many interesting mathematical items, especially his
description of the works of Archimedes.

`Timo Salmi <http://www.uwasa.fi/~ts/>`__

Timo was the moderator of Garbo and a frequent contributor to Pascal
newsgroups.

`Kevin Savetz <http://www.savetz.com>`__

Kevin has All the FAQs and lots of Atari information.

`Sam Savage <http://drsamsavage.com/>`__

Sam wrote the book Decision Making with Insight and is the inventor of
Shmuzzles.

`Richard Seaman <http://www.richard-seaman.com>`__

Richard has an excellent collection of photos. Of course, my greatest
interest is in the air show photos, but all these photos are
outstanding.

`Michael Shermer <http://www.michaelshermer.com/>`__

Michael is the editor of Skeptic magazine and a contributor to
Scientific American.

`Bruce Simpson <http://www.aardvark.co.nz/pjet/>`__

Bruce has info on pulsejets and low-cost construction of missiles.

`Joel Spolsky <https://www.joelonsoftware.com>`__

Joel writes interesting discussions called Joel on Software. Also
`WhatCounts <https://whatcounts.com>`__ and
`FogCreek <https://fogcreek.com>`__.

`Alfred Vachris <https://alfred-excel-vachris.com/>`__

Al has solutions to various math computing problems.

`Eric Weisstein <http://www.ericweisstein.com/>`__

Eric maintains the `MathWorld <http://mathworld.wolfram.com>`__ site at
Wolfram Software. We used to call it Treasure Troves.

`Stephan Wolfram <https://writings.stephenWolfram.com>`__

Stephan is the developer of Mathematica.

Pages such as this develop broken links as time goes on. Please send me
mail if you get one.

Last updated: 4 September 2020 by

Ralph Carmichael (ralphpdas AT excite DOT com)

.. container:: crumb

   `:doc:Web Sites <websites>` > Friends

.. container:: newbanner

   Ralph Carmichael Â 
