================================
Sources of Aeronautical Software
================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > AeroSoft

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Sources of Aeronautical Software
      :name: sources-of-aeronautical-software

There are a number of people and organizations that offer software and
information that may be of value to aeronautical engineers and aviation
enthusiasts. I have looked at all of these sites carefully and am
favorably impressed by each one. However, I haven\'t checked out all of
the software, so this is not a professional recommendation.

Link

Comments

`Abbott Aerospace <http://www.abbottaerospace.com>`__

Many computational procedures may be downloaded as spreadsheets. Look
for *Spreadsheets* under *Resources.* Richard Abbott.

`Aero code <http://www.caided.co.uk>`__

An aerodynamic computer that follows the flow through a propulsion
system from free stream to inlet to nozzle, including inlet and nozzle
geometry. Still in beta test and the author would like feedback. Nick
Chettle.

`AeroLogic <http://www.aerologic.com>`__

The Personal Simulation Workshop - Loftsman for geometric layout of
external lines, Cmarc for flow analysis, Postmarc for interpretation of
results. Peter Garrison

`AERONAUTICA 3D <http://aeronautica3d.com>`__

Creates aircraft and aviation oriented 3D computer models. DXF files,
thousands of polygons

`Aircraft Designs <http://www.aircraftdesigns.com>`__

Books and Software plus consulting. Martin Hollmann, Rick McWilliams

`Airfoil Design Workshop <http://www.tdmsoftware.com/afd/>`__

A useful wing lofting utility. Terry Majewski.

`Analytical Methods <http://www.am-inc.com>`__

Aeronautical consulting and software. Strong on user support and good
interfaces for analysis codes.

`AVID LLC <http://www.avidaerospace.com>`__

AVID (Air Vehicle Integrated Design) offers aircraft design tools and
consulting. Paul Gelhausen and Sam Wilson.

`CADRE Analytic <http://www.cadreanalytic.com/>`__

Finite element analysis software for structural analysis.

`Calmar Research <http://www.calmarresearch.com/NF/home.htm>`__

Among other things, Calmar offers Tranair and AGPS originally developed
by Boeing.

`Ceasiom <http://www.ceasiom.com>`__

Computerised Environment for Aircraft Synthesis and Integrated
Optimisation Methods. A reasonably complete vehicle synthesis package
with integrated optimization. Incorporates the Tornado vortex-lattice
program. Free.

`CFD Resources Online <http://www.cfd-online.com/Links/soft>`

Links to many sites with CFD software

`CFD Utilities (NASA
Ames) <https://sourceforge.net/projects/cfdutilities/>`__

| The CFD Utility Software Library consists of nearly 30 libraries of
  Fortran 90 and 77 subroutines and almost 100 applications built on
  those libraries. Many of the utilities apply to multiblock structured
  grids and flow solutions, but numerous other reusable modules in such
  categories as interpolation, optimization, quadrature, rapid
  searching, and character manipulation appear from several decades of
  software development in the Aerodynamics Division and Space Technology
  Division at NASA Ames Research Center. *(from the website)*
| Yes, this is more general than just CFD. There are numerous
  collections of well-written and well-documented procedures that are
  useful for diverse applications. In my opinion, Dave Saunders is the
  best code commenter and documenter in the business. It is a pleasure
  to read a subroutine whose purpose is clearly explained and where the
  input and output parameters are precisely specified.

`Cise <https://www.computer.org/web/cise>`__

The Computing in Science and Engineering Portal. This is a joint project
of `IEEE <http://www.ieee.org/index>` and
`AIP <http://www.aip.org/>`__ and is based on the well known journal. It
is to become a software repository, but right now it is more promise
than delivery.

`Conceptual Research <http://www.aircraftdesign.com/>`__

Information on books Aircraft Design - A Conceptual Approach (3rd ed.),
Simplified Aircraft Design for Homebuilders, RDS Software and Dan\'s
short course. My favorite book list. Dan Raymer

`CuSoft Research <http://www.trimill.com/CuSoft/>`__

Some interesting charts and spreadsheets to improve your cross-country
soaring tactics.

`DARcorporation <http://www.darcorp.com>`__

Advanced Aircraft Analysis (AAA) and other design and analysis programs.
U. Kansas, Jan Roskam, William Anemaat

`Desktop Aeronautics <http://www.desktop.aero/index.php>`__

LinAir,Panda,SAND,ADW,Plot. Also Applied Aero textbook on CDROM. Ilan
Kroo.

`Dreese Software <http://www.dreesecode.com/>`__

Airfoil design code. John Dreese.

`FlightGear <http://www.flightgear.org>`__

Open Source flight simulator

`FoilSim <http://www.grc.nasa.gov/WWW/K-12/aerosim/index>`

Interactive airfoil (and baseball) solver. Good graphics. From NASA
Glenn. Tom Benson.

`GFSSP <http://gfssp.msfc.nasa.gov/>`__

The Generalized Fluid System Simulation Program for analyzing
steady-state and time-dependent flowrates, pressures, temperatures, and
concentrations in a complex flow network. US Patent 6748349 B1. Alok
Kumar Majumdar, John W. Bailey, Paul Alen Schallhorn, and Todd E.
Steadman of Sverdrup Technology for NASA Marshall.

`GMAT <http://gmatcentral.org>`__

The Generalized Mission Analysis Tool (GMAT) allows you simulate
arbitrary interplanetary missions and calculate the required energy and
time. This is like the PDAS program TOMARS on steroids.

`Hanley Innovations <http://www.hanleyinnovations.com>`__

A number of computational aerodynamic tools, such as VisualFoil airfoil
analysis program., Multi-Surface Aerodynamics, Stallion 3D CFD package.
Patrick Hanley

`Hegedus Aerodynamics <http://www.hegedusaero.com/>`__

A new startup that will develop tools for aerodynamic analysis and
design. One product, *Aero Troll*, available for download. Martin
Hegedus.

`Holy Cows <http://www.holycows.net/>`__

Holy Cows is a project that puts a friendly graphical interface on
Digital Datcom. Bill Gailbraith.

`Lissys <http://www.lissys.demon.co.uk/>`__

PIANO is industry-standard software for commercial aircraft analysis and
competitor evaluation, with a calibrated database of planes.

`M H Airfoils <http://www.mh-aerotools.de/airfoils/index.htm>`__

Lots of good info relating to model airplane aerodynamics. Martin
Hepperle.

`Mattingly <http://www.jsmatt.com/index>`

Jack Mattingly has published a guide to the collection of programs that
he has developed. Propulsion and performance oriented.

`Micro CFD <http://microcfd.com/software.htm>`__

CFD solutions and consulting. Virtual wind tunnel, both 2D and 3D. Axel
Rohde.

`MetaComp Technologies <http://www.metacomptech.com>`__

CFD++ program

`NACA.BAS <http://m-selig.ae.illinois.edu/ads/naca980820.bas>`__

A coding of the NACA airfoil geometry in Basic by Dave Lednicer

`code.NASA <http://code.nasa.gov>`__

NASA open source software.

`Nielsen Engineering and Research <http://www.nearinc.com>`__

Aeronautical consulting and software. Strong on missile aerodynamics,
store separation, etc.

`Open Channel <http://www.openchannelsoftware.com>`__

Open Channel Software has most of the old COSMIC collection of software
from NASA. They refer to them as NASA Classics. There is some overlap
with PDAS, but Open Channel has a wide assortment of codes, not just
aeronautical.

`Optix and Mach-Up <http://aero.go.usu.edu>`__

Premier aerodynamic design and optimization tools. Currently offering a
general optimization code and wing design program for minimum induced
drag. Doug Hunsaker

`Optimal Aircraft Design <http://www.oad.aero>`__

ADS - Aircraft Design Software for the analysis and design of any
aircraft configuration from UAVs to light transport aircraft. Didier
Breyne.

`Pilot 3D <http://www.pilot3d.com>`__

2D/3D NURB surface design software that includes the UIUC airfoil
database. Special tools include the ability to smooth the raw airfoil
offset data, create 3D foil shapes, and output 2D/3D information for
construction. Steve Hollister.

`Potto Project <http://www.potto.org>`__

The Potto Project was developed by Dr. Genick Bar-Meir and friends to
build open content textbook and open source software for college
students. Books, software and tables may be downloaded from the Potto
site.

`Rocket Propulsion Analysis (RPA) <http://propulsion-analysis.com>`__

RPA is a analysis tool with an intuitive graphical user interface for
the performance prediction of rocket engines. Windows, Mac, Linux.
Alexander Ponomarenko.

`S4PM <http://sourceforge.net/projects/s4pm/>`__

The Simple, Scalable, Script-based Science Processor for Measurements
(S4PM) is a system for highly automated processing of science data. It
is the main processing engine at the Goddard Earth Sciences Data and
Information Services Center (GES DISC). In addition to being scalable up
to large processing systems such as the GES DISC, it is also scalable
down to small, special-purpose processing strings.

`SketchUp <http://www.sketchup.com>`__

SketchUp is a 3D modeling program for defining complex objects. Most
examples are architectural, but there are several examples of airplanes.
Video tutorials to help you get started. I hope to figure out how to
create LaWgs files from such a definition. Maybe some bright folks will
figure it out and show me.

`SoarSoft Software <http://www.compufoil.com/index.shtml>`__

CompuFoil3D program for airfoil plotting and lofting. Lots of features
to help model airplane builders. Eric Saunders

`SU2 <http://su2.stanford.edu/>`__

The Stanford University Unstructured (SU2) suite is an open-source
collection of C++ based software tools for performing Partial
Differential Equation (PDE) analysis and solving PDE constrained
optimization problems. The toolset is designed with computational fluid
dynamics and aerodynamic shape optimization in mind, but is extensible
to treat arbitrary sets of governing equations such as potential flow,
electrodynamics, chemically reacting flows, and many others.

`TetrUSS <http://tetruss.larc.nasa.gov/>`__

NASA Tetrahedral Unstructured Software System. A Rapid Aerodynamic
Analysis and Design Capability For Complex Configurations by Non-Expert
Users.

`USGS <http://water.usgs.gov/software/>`__

Software from the US Geological Survey. There is a lot of interesting
software here. It is all written for water so there is a big gravity
effect that you don\'t find in aero codes, but you might find something
of interest.

`Alfred Vachris <https://alfred-excel-vachris.com>`__

Al Vachris has published a number of solutions to a number of
mathematical and computing problems that may prove useful. The emphasis
is on VBA for Microsoft Excel, but the full source code shown lets you
adapt to your language of choice.

`Vehicle Sketch Pad <http://www.openvsp.org>`__

OpenVSP is a parametric aircraft geometry tool. OpenVSP allows the user
to create a 3D model of an aircraft defined by common engineering
parameters. This model can be processed into formats suitable for
engineering analysis. The predecessors to OpenVSP have been developed by
J.R. Gloudemans and others for NASA since the early 1990\'s. On January
10 2012, OpenVSP was released as an open source project under the NASA
Open Source Agreement (NOSA) version 1.3.

`Virginia
Tech <http://www.dept.aoe.vt.edu/~mason/Mason_f/MRsoft>`

Links to many useful small programs from Bill Mason and William
Devenport. Highly recommended.

`Vrand <http://www.vrand.com>`__

Finite Element and Optimization Software. Gary Vanderplaats

`WinFoil <http://www.winfoil.com>`__

Another airfoil analysis/design program. Emphasis on model airplanes.
Malcolm Hardy

`XFLR5 <http://www.xflr5.com>`__

This is a 3D wing plus body code incorporating XFOIL. Emphasis on low
Reynolds numbers for model airplanes, UAVs, etc.

`Xfoil <http://raphael.mit.edu/xfoil/>`__

XFOIL is an interactive program for the design and analysis of subsonic
isolated airfoils. Mark Drela and Harold Youngren. Check the `Virginia
Tech <http://www.dept.aoe.vt.edu/~mason/Mason_f/MRsoft>` site for
valuable notes on running Xfoil.

Go to the :doc:`aeronautical information <aeroinfo>` page or the
:doc:`aeronautical instruction <aeroprof>` page or the :doc:`web
links <aerolink>` page.



Last updated: 25 July 2019 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

:doc:`PDAS home <index>` > AeroSoft

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)
