==================================================================================
Velocity Gradient Method for Calculating Velocities in an Asymmetric Annular Duct.
==================================================================================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > ANDUCT

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Velocity gradient method for calculating velocities in an
      asymmetric annular duct.
      :name: velocity-gradient-method-for-calculating-velocities-in-an-asymmetric-annular-duct.

Turbomachinery components are often connected by ducts, which are
usually annular. The configurations and aerodynamic characteristics of
these ducts are crucial to the optimum performance of the turbomachinery
blade rows. The ANDUCT computer program was developed to calculate the
velocity distribution along an arbitrary line between the inner and
outer walls of an annular duct with axisymmetric swirling flow. Although
other programs are available for duct analysis, the use of the velocity
gradient method makes the ANDUCT program fast and convenient while
requiring only modest computer resources. A fast and easy method of
analyzing the flow through a duct with axisymmetric flow is the velocity
gradient method, also known as the stream filament or streamline
curvature method. This method has been used extensively for blade
passages but has not been widely used for ducts, except for the radial
equilibrium equation. In ANDUCT, a velocity gradient equation derived
from the momentum equation is used to determine the velocity variation
along an arbitrary straight line between the inner and outer wall of an
annular duct. The velocity gradient equation is used with an assumed
variation of meridional streamline curvature. Upstream flow conditions
may vary between the inner and outer walls, and an assumed total
pressure distribution may be specified. ANDUCT works best for
well-guided passages and where the curvature of the walls is small as
compared to the width of the passage.

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as program LEW-14000.
The italicized text above is from the official COSMIC release. The
program labelled LEW-14000 does not seem to exactly correspond to the
programs in the references below, although they seem to have the same
objectives.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the Annular
   Duct <anductrefs>` program.
-  Go to the :doc:`download page <anductdownload>` to download the
   annular duct program.



Last updated: 9 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT gmail
DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > ANDUCT

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
