=============================================
My Professional Background - Ralph Carmichael
=============================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > Background

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Background
      :name: background

|photo of Ralph Carmichael. Click for big image| I have been in the
airplane design profession since 1955. After working for Douglas and
Boeing for about seven years, I joined the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA) at the Ames Research Center in 1963 and
remained there until my retirement in 1994. I have been involved, either
directly or tangentially, with a large number of projects involving
development of computer programs for aeronautical applications. Most of
these were government funded and justified on the basis of value to the
aviation industry and hence to the general public. Some of these
programs were transferred to the major airplane manufacturers but few
have been updated for the desktop computers that are in widespread use
today. Many programs developed by our national laboratories have never
left the labs. When I retired from NASA, I decided that I would obtain
copies of these programs and update them to run on the desktop computers
used by practicing engineers, students and aviation enthusiasts and to
make this collection available at a modest price. The first edition of
this collection was released in January 1996 and has been followed by a
new release every January thereafter. The original disc with six
programs has now expanded to 83 and more are planned for the future.

Check my :doc:`Publication List <pubs>` and my formal
:doc:`resume <resume>`.

Last updated: 9 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > Background

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. |photo of Ralph Carmichael. Click for big image| image:: images/bw2t.jpg
   :width: 100px
   :height: 109px
   :target: images/bw2.jpg
