==========================================================================================
Nonrotating Blade-To-Blade, Steady, Potential Transonic Cascade Flow Analysis Code (CAS2D)
==========================================================================================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > CAS2D

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Nonrotating Blade-To-Blade, Steady, Potential Transonic
      Cascade Flow Analysis Code (CAS2D)
      :name: nonrotating-blade-to-blade-steady-potential-transonic-cascade-flow-analysis-code-cas2d

An exact, full-potential-equation model for the steady, irrotational,
homoentropic, and homoenergetic flow of a compressible, inviscid fluid
through a two-dimensional planar cascade together with its appropriate
boundary conditions has been derived. The CAS2D computer program
numerically solves an artificially time-dependent form of the actual
full-potential-equation, providing a nonrotating blade-to-blade, steady,
potential transonic cascade flow analysis code.

In CAS2D, the governing equation is discretized by using type-dependent,
rotated finite differencing and the finite area technique. The flow
field is discretized by providing a boundary-fitted, nonuniform
computational mesh. This mesh is generated by using a sequence of
conformal mapping, nonorthogonal coordinate stretching, and local,
isoparametric, bilinear mapping functions. The discretized form of the
full-potential equation is solved iteratively by using successive line
over relaxation. Possible isentropic shocks are captured by the explicit
addition of an artificial viscosity in a conservative form. In addition,
a four-level, consecutive, mesh refinement feature makes CAS2D a
reliable and fast algorithm for the analysis of transonic,
two-dimensional cascade flows. The results from CAS2D are not directly
applicable to three-dimensional, potential, rotating flows through a
cascade of blades because CAS2D does not consider the effects of the
Coriolis force that would be present in the three-dimensional case. (
NASA Lewis Research Center )

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as LEW-13854. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the CAS2D
   program. <cas2drefs>`
-  Go to the :doc:`download page <cas2ddownload>` for the CAS2D
   program.

This program is still a \"work in progress\". If you want to help debug
it, send me an email and I will try to keep you up-to-date on any
developments.

Last updated: 14 November 2019 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > CAS2D

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
