===============================================
Some Difficult Problems in Aeronautical Science
===============================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS Home <index>` > Difficult Problems

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Some Difficult Problems in Aeronautics
      :name: some-difficult-problems-in-aeronautics

There are some problems that do not get discussed in most textbooks of
aerodynamics because the space required to describe the solution is
judged by the authors and editors to be excessive for the value
received. In many cases, this is because the solutions require numerical
techniques such as root finding, numerical integration or solution of
linear systems. However, these questions do arise and the practising
aeronautical engineer occasionally needs the solution. Since the
standard textbooks are of little help, a lot of time can be expended in
the search for an answer, even though the problem has been solved over
and over again by others. Maybe this page will help.

The PDAS CD-ROM has a suite of numerical procedures that may be used for
the solution of these problems. The `source code <programs/fmm.f90>`__
for the numerical package may be downloaded from this site (Plain text,
16KB).

The following pages contain mathematical expressions and charts.
Beginning now (Oct 2002), I am going to serve all such pages in XHTML
with :doc:`MathML <mathml>` encoding of the mathematical expressions.
You may have trouble seeing the math if your browser is not XML and
MathML enabled. If you use Firefox and install the proper fonts, you
should be OK. If we all complain enough, the next versions of Opera and
Internet Explorer should have this capability. And before long, I plan
to put the charts in SVG. I am not doing this to make it hard on you,
but so we can all have better web pages containing scientific and
engineering information. The technique of using images for math and
charts is tedious and error-prone and leads to pages that require a long
time to load. With XHTML-MathML-SVG, we can have web pages that look
like journal articles and the only external images that need to be
loaded will be photographs.

Note added February, 2013: I hope I live long enough to see this, but I
wouldn\'t take any bets. As a short-term (hah!!) work-around, these
pages are also available in Portable Document Format (PDF).

-  Go to the list of :doc:`difficult problems <diffproblist>`.
-  Go to the :doc:`download page <diffprobdownload>` for Difficult
   Problems.

If you have comments about MathML or SVG, send them to me at
`pdaerowebmaster AT gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__.



Last updated: 10 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS Home <index>` > :doc:`What\'s new <whatsnew>` >
   Difficult Problems

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
