=============================
PROFILE - Eppler Airfoil Code
=============================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Eppler

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: PROFILE - The Eppler airfoil code
      :name: profile---the-eppler-airfoil-code

   A conformal-mapping method for the design of airfoils with prescribed
   velocity distribution characteristics, a panel method for the
   analysis of the potential flow about given airfoils, and a
   boundary-layer method have been combined. With this combined method,
   airfoils with prescribed boundary-layer characteristics can be
   designed and airfoils with prescribed shapes can be analyzed.

The flow about an airfoil in free air can be described approximately by
a boundary-layer flow near the surface of the airfoil and by a potential
flow everywhere else. Boundary-layer theory can be applied to the flow
about an airfoil in two ways. First, the boundary-layer development can
be determined for a given potential flow velocity distribution. This is
the direct or analysis problem. Second, the potential-flow field, or at
least some of its properties, can be determined for a given
boundary-layer development. This is the inverse or design problem. This
second application of boundary-layer theory requires the solution of the
inverse potential-flow problem where the potential-flow velocity
distribution is specified and the airfoil shape is computed. Thus, the
viscous airfoil design (inverse) problem can be described as the
computation of a shape from a potential flow velocity distribution which
is consistent with a desired boundary-layer development. Because
Tollmien, Schlichting,Ulrich, Pretsch, and others had shown that
favorable pressure gradients delay the transition from laminar to
turbulent flow, airfoils were designed with aft pressure recoveries. The
experimental results for these airfoils confirmed the theoretical
predictions. This breakthrough led to the laminar flow airfoil series.
Since that time, boundary-layer and potential flow theories have been
steadily improved.

Different computer programs have been developed for low-speed
(incompressible)airfoils. The present paper describes one of these
programs. The potential flow inverse problem still plays a major role in
airfoil design. This problem has been solved exactly by means of
conformal mapping. The method is similar to that of Lighthill, is
direct, and solves most multipoint design problems in a very simple
manner. A potential-flow analysis method is also required for comparison
with wind tunnel tests of given airfoils and for analyses of airfoils
generated by the design method and then modified by a flap deflection.
The airfoil analysis problem is solved using a distributed surface
singularity method. Some of the details of this method are new and
previously unpublished. The boundary-layer method uses integral momentum
and energy equations. The present method does not contain a
boundary-layer displacement iteration. The program has been successfully
applied at Reynolds numbers from 20 thousand to 100 million.

Italic text above is from TM 80210.

Although this program is of great historical importance and one still
finds current papers that refer to calculations made with PROFILE, it is
not the program of choice for someone learning about airfoil plus
boundary layer calculations. I would recommend
`Xfoil <http://raphael.mit.edu/xfoil/>`__ for today\'s students. Xfoil
is an interactive program for the design and analysis of subsonic
isolated airfoils written by Mark Drela and Harold Youngren. Check the
Virginia Tech site for valuable notes on running Xfoil.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the Eppler <epplerrefs>`
   program.
-  Go to the :doc:`download page <epplerdownload>` for the Eppler
   program.



Last updated: 10 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Eppler

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
