=======================================================
GENOPTICS- A General Optical Systems Evaluation Program
=======================================================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Optics

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: A General Optical Systems Evaluation Program
      :name: a-general-optical-systems-evaluation-program

The General Optical Systems Evaluation Program, GENOPTICS, was developed
as an aid for the analysis and evaluation of optical systems that employ
lenses, mirrors, diffraction gratings, and other geometrical surfaces.
The GENOPTICS evaluation is performed by means of geometrical ray
tracing based upon Snell\'s law. The GENOPTICS program can provide for
the exact ray tracing of as many as 800 rays through as many as 40
surfaces. These surfaces may be planar, conic, toric, or polynomial
shaped lenses, mirrors, and diffraction gratings. Each surface may be
tilted about as many as three axes and may be decentered. Surfaces
having bilateral symmetry may also be analyzed. GENOPTICS provides for
user-oriented input and for a wide range of output for the evaluation of
the optical system being analyzed.

GENOPTICS provides a wide range of features for the optical system
analyst. GENOPTICS performs paraxial ray tracing and computation of the
third order aberrations including aspheric contribution. Graphical
output can be generated for spot diagrams, radial energy distributions,
and modulation transfer functions, for each object point and each color.
Sag tables may be generated for any rotationally symmetric surface, with
options to obtain the sag differences from a reference sphere in units
of lengths or wavelengths. Statistics and plots of ray intercepts with
any surface in the system may be obtained for use in vignetting analysis
and beam distribution analysis. Afocal systems can be examined with
image statistics generated in terms of tangents of angles with respect
to the optical axis. For exact ray tracing, a ray pattern at the
entrance pupil can be specified as a rectangular or polar grid, where
each ray samples an equal amount of area, or as a pattern where each ray
samples an equal amount of solid angle for a finite object. This latter
pattern is useful in radiometric work.

Input to GENOPTICS includes program control statements, system
definition data, surface data, and task data. The user can specify which
portions of an analysis are to be printed. Optional printout includes
system data, surface-to-surface printout of each ray, modulation
transfer function values, radial energy distribution values, and
paraxial ray data including aberrations. ( NASA Goddard Space Flight
Center )

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as GSC-12823. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  There are no references for this program.
-  :download:`Download goptics.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73febf50a41e3d19b9ec47/download>`, containing the
   original source code.



Last updated: 11 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Optics

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
