================================
References for the GRAPE Program
================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` >
   :doc:`GRAPE <grape>` > References

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: References for the GRAPE Program
      :name: references-for-the-grape-program

The first item is the primary reference for this program.

#. Sorenson, R. L.: *A Computer Program to Generate Two-Dimensional
   Grids About Airfoils and Other Shapes by the Use of Poisson\'s
   Equation.* `NASA Technical Memorandum
   81198 <https://docs.google.com/open?id=0B2UKsBO-ZMVgU2tnQ2tQN2dZcFE>`__,
   1980.
#. Thompson, J. F.; Thames, F. C.; and Mastin, C. W.: Automatic
   Numerical Generation of Body-Fitted Curvilinear Coordinate System for
   Field Containing Any Number of Arbitrary Two-Dimensional Bodies.
   *Journal of Computational Physics*, vol. 15, no. 3, July 1974, pp.
   299-319.
#. Steger, J. L.; and Sorenson, R. L.: Automatic Mesh-Point Clustering
   Near a Boundary in Grid Generation with Elliptic Partial Differential
   Equations. *Journal of Computational Physics*, vol. 33, no. 3, Dec.
   1979, pp. 405-410.
#. Abbott, I. H.; and Von Doenhoff, A. E.: Theory of Wing Sections.
   *Dover Publications, Inc.*, New York, 1959.
#. Bauer, F.; Garabedian, P.; Korn, D.; and Jameson, A.: Supercritical
   Wing Sections II. Lecture Notes in Economical and Mathematical
   Systems, *Springer-Verlag*, New York, 1975.
#. Sorenson, R. L.; and Steger, J. L.: *Simplified Clustering of
   Nonorthogonal Grids Generated by Elliptic Partial Differential
   Equations.* `NASA Technical Memorandum
   73252 <https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B2UKsBO-ZMVgZGtMLWVfa05HYnc/view?usp=sharing>`__,
   August 1977.
#. Thompson, J. F.; Thames, F. C.; and Mastin, C. W.: Automated
   Numerical Generation of Body-Fitted Curvilinear Coordinate System for
   Field Containing Any Number of Arbitrary Two-Dimensional Bodies.
   *Journal of Computational Physics*, vol. 15, no. 3, July 1974, pp.
   299-319.
#. Thompson, J. F.; Thames, F. C.; and Mastin, C. W.: TOMCAT---A Code
   for Numerical Generation of Boundary-Fitted Curvilinear Coordinate
   Systems on Fields Containing Any Number of Arbitrary Two-Dimensional
   Bodies, *Journal of Computational Physics*, vol. 24, no. 3, July
   1977, pp. 274-302.
#. Steger, J. L.; and Sorenson, R. L.: Automatic Mesh-Point Clustering
   Near a Boundary in Grid Generation with Elliptic Partial Differential
   Equations, *Journal of Computational Physics*, vol. 33, no. 3, Dec.
   1979, pp. 405-410.
#. Sorenson, R. L.; and Steger, J. L.: Grid Generation in Three
   Dimensions by Poisson Equations with Control of Cell Size and
   Skewness at Boundary Surfaces, in Advances in Grid
   Generation-FED-Vol. 5, K. N. Ghia, ed., ASME, 1983.
#. Sorenson, R. L.: Three-Dimensional Elliptic Grid Generation for an
   F-16, in Three Dimensional Grid Generation for Complex
   Configurations---Recent Progress, AGARDograph 309, March 1988, pp.
   23-28.
#. Flores, J.; Chaderjian, N. M.; and Sorenson, R. L.: Simulation of
   Transonic Viscous Flow Over a Fighter-Like Configuration Including
   Inlet. AIAA Paper 87-1199, June 1987. (Also published in J. Aircraft,
   vol. 26, no. 4, April 1989.)
#. Sorenson, R. L.: Three-Dimensional Zonal Grids About Arbitrary Shapes
   by Poisson\'s Equation, Proc. Second Intern. Conf. Numerical Grid
   Generation in CFD, Miami, December, 1988 Numerical Grid Generation in
   Computational Fluid Mechanics, S. Sengupta, J. Hauser, P. R. Eiseman,
   and C. Taylor, eds., Pineridge Press Ltd., Swansea, U.K., 1988. (Also
   published as `NASA Technical Memorandum
   101018 <_static/tm101018.pdf>`__, 1988.)
#. Buning, P.; and Steger, J.: Graphics and Flow Visualization in
   Computational Fluid Dynamics, AIAA-85-1507-CP, July 1985.
#. Walatka, P. P.; and Bunning, P. G.: PLOT3D User\'s Manual, `NASA
   Technical Memorandum
   101067 <https://docs.google.com/open?id=0B2UKsBO-ZMVgMlpfV2EtWTdOaDg>`__,
   1989.



Last updated: 11 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` >
   :doc:`GRAPE <grape>` > References

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)
