===========================================
Improved Price Estimation Guidelines (IPEG)
===========================================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > IPEG

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Improved Price Estimation Guidelines (IPEG)
      :name: improved-price-estimation-guidelines-ipeg

The Improved Price Estimation Guidelines, IPEG, program provides a
simple yet accurate estimate of the price of a manufactured product.
IPEG facilitates sensitivity studies of price estimates at considerably
less expense than would be incurred by using the Standard Assembly-line
Manufacturing Industry Simulation, SAMIS, program (COSMIC program
NPO-16032). A difference of less than one percent between the IPEG and
SAMIS price estimates has been observed with realistic test cases.
However, the IPEG simplification of SAMIS allows the analyst with
limited time and computing resources to perform a greater number of
sensitivity studies than with SAMIS. Although IPEG was developed for the
photovoltaics industry, it is readily adaptable to any standard assembly
line type of manufacturing industry.

IPEG estimates the annual production price per unit. The input data
includes cost of equipment, space, labor, materials, supplies, and
utilities. Production on an industry wide basis or a process wide basis
can be simulated. Once the IPEG input file is prepared, the original
price is estimated and sensitivity studies may be performed. The IPEG
user selects a sensitivity variable and a set of values. IPEG will
compute a price estimate and a variety of other cost parameters for
every specified value of the sensitivity variable. IPEG is designed as
an interactive system and prompts the user for all required information
and offers a variety of output options. ( Cal Tech/Jet Propulsion Lab. )

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as NPO-15569. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  There are no references for this program.
-  :download:`Download ipeg.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73fec350a41e3d19b9ec9d/download>`, containing the original
   source code. This program is written in VAX Pascal (originally Turbo
   Pascal).



Last updated: 14 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > IPEG

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
