=================================
Legal Statements about the CD-ROM
=================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > Legal

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Legal Items
      :name: legal-items

The entire contents of Public Domain Computer Programs for the
Aeronautical Engineer are Copyright © 2017 by Ralph L. Carmichael, all
rights reserved, as a collective work (compilation copyright) under the
Copyright laws of the United States of America. Except as noted below,
the copying, reproduction, or publication of any part is prohibited,
unless expressly authorized by Public Domain Aeronautical Software.

A compilation copyright is granted when an organization lawfully
collects or acquires information and organizes it in a way that adds
value to the collection. A compilation copyright grants to the owner
certain rights, such as the right to control further distribution of the
compilation of works.

The individual programs in this collection are specifically NOT
copyrighted and are public domain by virtue of

#. being works of a government employee in the course of his official
   duties OR
#. being works for public dissemination of a contractor to the U.S.
   government OR
#. being contributed to the public domain by the original author

All added value to the programs contributed by Public Domain
Aeronautical Software is hereby donated to the public domain. The
instructions and sample cases are also declared to be in the public
domain and may be reproduced for classroom use as needed.

Disclaimer
==========

Although many of the works contained herein were developed by national
laboratories or their contractors, neither the U.S. Government nor
Public Domain Aeronautical Software make any warranty as to the accuracy
or appropriateness of the procedure to any particular application.

The programs and descriptions have been collected and reproduced with
great care and attention to accuracy, but no guarantee or warranty is
implied. All programs are offered AS IS and Public Domain Aeronautical
Software gives no express or implied warranty of any kind and any
implied warranties are disclaimed. Public Domain Aeronautical Software
will not be liable for any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or
consequential damages arising out of any use of this software. In no
case should the results of any computational scheme be used as a
substitute for sound engineering practice and judgment.



Last updated: 12 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > Legal

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
