============================
LONGLIB - A Graphics Library
============================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Longlib

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: LONGLIB - A Graphics Library
      :name: longlib---a-graphics-library

This library is a set of subroutines designed for vector plotting to
CRT\'s, plotters, dot matrix, and laser printers. LONGLIB subroutines
are invoked by program calls similar to standard CALCOMP routines. In
addition to the basic plotting routines, LONGLIB contains an extensive
set of routines to allow viewport clipping, extended character sets,
graphic input, shading, polar plots, and 3-D plotting with or without
hidden line removal.

LONGLIB capabilities include surface plots, contours, histograms,
logarithm axes, world maps, and seismic plots. LONGLIB includes master
subroutines, which are self-contained series of commonly used individual
subroutines. When invoked, the master routine will initialize the
plotting package, and will plot multiple curves, scatter plots, log
plots, 3-D plots, etc. and then close the plot package, all with a
single call. The LONGLIB package includes the graphics library source
code, an on-line help library, scan converter and meta file conversion
programs, and command files for installing, creating, and testing the
library.

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as NPO-17443. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  There are no references for this package. However, there are several
   files in the longlib.zip package that are explanatory. The manual is
   longlib.rno, which is in runoff format (Unix). The .doc files are not
   Microsoft Word, but simple text files.
-  :download:`Download longlib.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73fec550a41e3d19b9ecb5/download>`, containing the
   original source code and some explanatory files.

There may be some value to this open source package, but I think it is
largely superseded in concept and execution by gnuplot. I think the
tables of points that define the outlines of the continents and
political boundaries are interesting and useful.



Last updated: 12 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Longlib

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
