===============================================
Why doesn\'t the atmosphere fall to the ground?
===============================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS Home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` >
   :doc:`Difficult Problems <diffprob>` > No fall

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Why Doesn\'t the Atmosphere Fall to the Ground?
      :name: why-doesnt-the-atmosphere-fall-to-the-ground

This question is not as silly as it sounds. The molecules making up the
atmosphere have mass and therefore are attracted to the center of the
earth by the force of gravity. So, why are they up over our heads
instead of down around our feet? I like to answer this by asking another
question: If there are ten thousand Pascals of pressure in the
atmosphere at sea level, why doesn\'t this blow the air out into space?

The answer to both questions is that the molecules of air are indeed
being pulled toward the center of the earth. But, as they squeeze
together as tightly as possible, the resulting pressure pushes them
upward. A balance is reached when the atmospheric density varies with
altitude in just the right way that gravity and pressure are in static
equilibrium.

It is fairly easy to derive the law of hydrostatic equilibrium:

dp/dz = -g \* density

which relates the weight density of the atmosphere to the gradient of
pressure with height. From this relationship, the perfect gas law and
the definition of temperature in the standard atmosphere, one may derive
the equations of hydrostatic equilibrium describing the temperature,
density and pressure at any altitude in the atmosphere.

You may read the page describing the equations of hydrostatic
equilibrium. `XHTML+MathML, 12KB <hydro.xml>`__ or `PDF,
69KB <hydro.pdf>`__.

A related question would be: Since the atmosphere is trying to squeeze
as closely as possible to the surface of the earth, how thick is the
resulting layer of air? I have :doc:`a page <atmthick>` that addresses
this question.



Last updated: 12 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS Home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` >
   :doc:`Difficult Problems <diffprob>` > No fall

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
