=========================================
Optimum Trajectory of a Turbofan Airplane
=========================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Optimum
   Trajectory

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Optimum Trajectory of a Turbofan Airplane
      :name: optimum-trajectory-of-a-turbofan-airplane

   This program from NASA Ames is an example of using control theory to
   optimize the flight path of a transport airplane.

For an aircraft operating over a fixed range, the operating costs are
basically a sum of fuel cost and time cost. While minimum fuel and
minimum time trajectories are relatively easy to calculate, the
determination of a minimum cost trajectory can be a complex undertaking.
This computer program was developed to optimize trajectories with
respect to a cost function based on a weighted sum of fuel cost and time
cost. As a research tool, the program can be used to study various
characteristics of optimum trajectories and their comparison to standard
trajectories. It might also be used to generate a model for the
development of an airborne trajectory optimization system. The program
could be incorporated into an airline flight planning system, with
optimum flight plans determined at takeoff time for the prevailing
flight conditions. The use of trajectory optimization might
significantly reduce the cost for a given aircraft mission.

The algorithm incorporated in the program assumes that a trajectory
consists of climb, cruise, and descent segments. The optimization of
each segment is not done independently, as in classical procedures, but
is performed in a manner which accounts for interaction between the
segments. This is accomplished by the application of optimal control
theory. The climb and descent profiles are generated by integrating a
set of kinematic and dynamic equations, where the total energy of the
aircraft is the independent variable. At each energy level of the climb
and descent profiles, the air speed and power setting necessary for an
optimal trajectory are determined. The variational Hamiltonian of the
problem consists of the rate of change of cost with respect to total
energy and a term dependent on the adjoint variable, which is identical
to the optimum cruise cost at a specified altitude. This variable
uniquely specifies the optimal cruise energy, cruise altitude, cruise
Mach number, and, indirectly, the climb and descent profiles. If the
optimum cruise cost is specified, an optimum trajectory can easily be
generated; however, the range obtained for a particular optimum cruise
cost is not known a priori. For short range flights, the program
iteratively varies the optimum cruise cost until the computed range
converges to the specified range. For long-range flights, iteration is
unnecessary since the specified range can be divided into a cruise
segment distance and full climb and descent distances.

The user must supply the program with engine fuel flow rate coefficients
and an aircraft aerodynamic model. The program currently includes
coefficients for the Pratt-Whitney JT8D-7 engine and an aerodynamic
model for the Boeing 727. Input to the program consists of the flight
range to be covered and the prevailing flight conditions including
pressure, temperature, and wind profiles. Information output by the
program includes: optimum cruise tables at selected weights, optimal
cruise quantities as a function of cruise weight and cruise distance,
climb and descent profiles, and a summary of the complete synthesized
optimal trajectory.

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as ARC-11282. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  Go to the :doc:`download page <opttrajdownload>` for the Optimum
   Trajectory Program.

REFERENCES

#. Rutowski, E.: Energy Approach to the General Aircraft Performance
   Problem. Journal of the Aeronautical Sciences, March 1954, pp.187-195



Last updated: 12 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > Optimum
   Trajectory

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
