=================================================================================================
Design Of Two-Dimensional Supersonic Turbine Rotor Blades With Boundary-Layer Correction (RBLADE)
=================================================================================================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > RBLADE

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Design Of Two-Dimensional Supersonic Turbine Rotor Blades
      With Boundary-Layer Correction (RBLADE)
      :name: design-of-two-dimensional-supersonic-turbine-rotor-blades-with-boundary-layer-correction-rblade

A computer program has been developed for the design of supersonic rotor
blades where losses are accounted for by correcting the ideal blade
geometry for boundary layer displacement thickness. The ideal blade
passage is designed by the method of characteristics and is based on
establishing vortex flow within the passage. Boundary-layer parameters
(displacement and momentum thicknesses) are calculated for the ideal
passage, and the final blade geometry is obtained by adding the
displacement thicknesses to the ideal nozzle coordinates. The
boundary-layer parameters are also used to calculate the aftermixing
conditions downstream of the rotor blades assuming the flow mixes to a
uniform state. The computer program input consists essentially of the
rotor inlet and outlet Mach numbers, upper- and lower-surface Mach
numbers, inlet flow angle, specific heat ratio, and total flow
conditions. The program gas properties are set up for air. Additional
gases require changes to be made to the program. The computer output
consists of the corrected rotor blade coordinates, the principal
boundary-layer parameters, and the aftermixing conditions. (NASA Lewis
Research Center)

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as LEW-11744. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  There are no references for this program.
-  :download:`Download rblade.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73fed650a41e3d19b9edb0/download>`, containing the
   original source code.



Last updated: 13 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > RBLADE

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
