===============================
Space Shuttle Synthesis Program
===============================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > SSSP

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Space Shuttle Synthesis Program
      :name: space-shuttle-synthesis-program

   A program for the conceptual design of one- or two-stage rocket
   powered launch vehicles.

The Space Shuttle Synthesis Program (SSSP) automates the trajectory,
weights and performance computations essential for the conceptual design
of a launch vehicle for earth-to-orbit operations. The baseline system
is a two-stage vehicle consisting of a booster and an orbiter element,
but single stage vehicles may be studied. The major parts of SSSP are a
detailed weight/volume routine, a precision three-dimensional trajectory
simulation, and the iteration and synthesis logic necessary to satisfy
the hardware and trajectory constraints.

SSSP is a highly useful tool in conceptual design studies where the
effects of various trajectory configuration and shuttle subsystem
parameters must be evaluated relatively rapidly and economically. The
program furnishes sensitivity and tradeoff data for proper selection of
configuration and trajectory predesign parameters. Emphasis is placed
upon predesign simplicity and minimum input preparation. Characteristic
equations for describing aerodynamic and propulsion models and for
computing weights and volumes are kept relatively simple. The synthesis
program is designed for a relatively large number of two-stage Space
Shuttle configurations and mission types, but avoids the complexity of a
completely generalized computer program that would be unwieldy to use
and/or modify.

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as MSC-13914. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the SSSP <sssprefs>`
   program.
-  :download:`Download sssp.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73fedc50a41e3d19b9ee0c/download>`, containing the original
   source code.



Last updated: 13 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > SSSP

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
