======================
Supersonic Wing Design
======================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > TEA201

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Supersonic Wing Design
      :name: supersonic-wing-design

Over a period of years, NASA-Langley has developed a basic computerized
series of supersonic design and analysis methods for aerodynamic
configuration studies. The methods are characterized by their
reliability in use and input simplicity.

The Boeing Company has extended this basic series of methods and
combined them into an integrated system of computer programs. The
extensions to the methods provide several new features:

-  Addition of a near-field (thickness pressure) wave drag program, to
   complement the existing supersonic area rule program.
-  Improved modeling of fuselage in lifting surface design and analysis
   programs.
-  Addition of configuration-dependent loadings in the wing design
   program, so that the wing design is performed in the presence of
   fuselage and nacelle effects.
-  Addition of pressure limiting terms in the lifting pressure programs,
   to constrain the linear theory solution.
-  Optional CRT displays of selected program input and output data and
   provisions for limited user editing and intervention.

A plot module is included in the system to produce configuration
drawings, and a common geometry module is used to permit a single
geometry input for all programs. A wing pressure module permits
summaries of wing pressures at desired conditions.

The basis of the system is supersonic linearized theory, modified in two
respects:

-  The \"Whitham\" correction to disturbance positioning is used in the
   propagation of body pressure fields.
-  The wing lifting pressure modules contain an optional limiting
   pressure feature to control the permissible level of upper surface
   pressure coefficient.

Superposition is used to build up the theoretical force coefficients of
a selected configuration.

The goals of the integrated system have been to develop an easily used
supersonic design and analysis capability, with recognition of the need
for constraints on linear theory methods to provide physical realism,
and with inclusion of interactive display for increased design control
over optimization cycles.

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as LAR-13666. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the TEA201 <tea201refs>`
   program.
-  :download:`Download tea201.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73fedd50a41e3d19b9ee20/download>`, containing the source
   code converted to modern Fortran.



Last updated: 13 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > TEA201

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
