===========================================================================
Takeoff And Landing Performance Capabilities Of Transport Category Aircraft
===========================================================================

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > TOL

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: Takeoff And Landing Performance Capabilities Of Transport
      Category Aircraft
      :name: takeoff-and-landing-performance-capabilities-of-transport-category-aircraft

One of the most important considerations in the design of a commercial
transport aircraft is the aircraft\'s performance during takeoff and
landing operations. The aircraft must be designed to meet field length
constraints in accordance with airworthiness standards specified in the
Federal Aviation Regulations. In addition, the noise levels generated
during these operations must be within acceptable limits. This computer
program provides for the detailed analysis of the takeoff and landing
performance capabilities of transport category aircraft. The program
calculates aircraft performance in accordance with the airworthiness
standards of the Federal Aviation Regulations. The aircraft and flight
constraints are represented in sufficient detail to permit realistic
sensitivity studies in terms of either configuration modifications or
changes in operational procedures.

This program provides for the detailed performance analysis of the
takeoff and landing capabilities of specific aircraft designs and allows
for sensitivity studies. The program is not designed to synthesize
configurations or to generate aerodynamic, propulsion, or structural
characteristics. This type of information must be generated externally
to the program and then input as data. The program\'s representation of
the aircraft data is extensive and includes realistic limits on engine
and aircraft operational boundaries and maximum attainable lift
coefficients. The takeoff and climbout flight-path is generated by a
stepwise integration of the equation of motion. Special features include
options for nonstandard-day operation, for balanced field length, for
derated throttle to meet a given field length for off-loaded aircraft,
and for throttle cutback during climbout for community noise
alleviation. Advanced takeoff procedures for noise alleviation such as
programmed throttle and control flaps may be investigated with the
program. Approach profiles may incorporate advanced procedures such as
two segment approaches and decelerating approaches. The landing
performance considers the application of wheel brakes, spoilers, and
thrust reversers. (NASA Langley Research Center)

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as LAR-13086. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the TOL <tolrefs>` program.
-  :download:`Download tol.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73fedf50a41e3d19b9ee40/download>`, containing the original
   source code, the source code converted to modern Fortran, and a test
   cases.



Last updated: 13 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > TOL

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
