===================================
Supersonic Wing Design And Analysis
===================================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > W12SC3

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: W12SC3
      :name: w12sc3

   .. rubric:: Supersonic Wing Design And Analysis
      :name: supersonic-wing-design-and-analysis

COREL and W12SC3 are two computer programs useful in the aerodynamic
design and analysis of wings for supersonic maneuvering. Both programs
use the Super Critical Conical Camber (SC3) concept, in which high
supersonic lift coefficients are obtained by controlling cross flow
development. COREL (Conical Relaxation) solves the nonlinear full
potential equation for a spanwise section of a wing in the crossflow
plane and corrects the result for any nonconical geometry. W12SC3
applies linear theory panel methods to compute solutions for a wing-body
configuration. The programs are not restricted to supersonic maneuvering
cases, but are useful for many design, analysis, and optimization
applications.

COREL computes the mixed subsonic/supersonic crossflow that develops on
supersonic wings with high lift coefficients at Mach numbers normal to
shock waves of 1.3 or less. The bow and crossflow shocks are captured as
part of the solution. The initial aerodynamic solution is produced on a
crude grid and is then reiterated. A finer mesh is then mapped, keeping
the bow shock within the boundary of the new computed crossflow. The
input geometry can be specifically defined or calculated in COREL using
Craidon bicubic spline patches.

W12SC3 combines source and vortex panel singularity distributions for
calculating the linear theory estimate of the configuration
aerodynamics. The user can specify Woodward II calculations for
arbitrary body models or Woodward I calculations for an interference
shell that approximates actual body shape. The Carlson correction for
supersonic linear theory wing calculations is applied at wing control
points. If desired, COREL will produce conical panel pressure data for
further processing by W12SC3. W12SC3 can perform the following
aerodynamic functions: 1) full analysis, 2) full design, 3) full
optimization, 4) mixed design-analysis, and 5) mixed
design-optimization. Results from W12SC3 include wing camber
distribution, surface velocities, pressure coefficients and drag.

This program was released by NASA through COSMIC as LAR-13239. The
italicized text above is from the official NASA release.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the Corel and
   W12SC3 <corelrefs>` programs.
-  :download:`Download w12sc3.zip <https://data.kitware.com/api/v1/item/5f73fee550a41e3d19b9eebe/download>`, containing the
   original source code, the source code converted to modern Fortran,
   and a test case from the reference document, `NASA
   CR-3676 <_static/cr3676.pdf>`__.



Last updated: 14 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` > W12SC3

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
