=============================
NASA-AMES WingBody Panel Code
=============================

:Author: Ralph Carmichael

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS Home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` >
   WingBody

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  

.. container::
   :name: header

   .. rubric:: NASA-AMES WingBody Panel Code
      :name: nasa-ames-wingbody-panel-code

   The classic NASA program for computing subsonic and supersonic
   aerodynamics of a wing-body combination has been adapted to run on
   the PC. The source code (public domain) is included in this
   collection of aeronautical software.

Panel codes, like Area Rule are success stories of the early days of
computational aerodynamics. Panel codes generate the solution to
problems in aerodynamics by superposition of elementary solutions.

This code is popularly known as the NASA Ames WingBody program. It is
the outgrowth of a series of contracts with the Boeing Company for the
development of a method of computing optimum camber and twist
distributions on wing-body combinations at supersonic speeds. The
contract work extended from 1966 to 1969 and the principal investigator
was Frank Woodward.

After the completion of the contract work, the program underwent
additional development at Ames and was widely distributed to airplane
manufacturers and research laboratories. The original code for the IBM
7090 was updated when later machines such as the 360 and the CDC 7600
came on the scene.

Around 1980, the powerful surface panel codes such as Pmarc and PanAir
became available and have today more or less replaced the mean surface
codes such as WingBody. Those panel codes themselves have been
superseded by computational fluid dynamics codes solving Euler or
Navier-Stokes equations. However there is still a tradeoff between the
time spent setting up the input for a computational technique versus the
accuracy of the method. I have brought this program back to life for
this collection as it has a certain balance of speed, ease of use and
range of applicability that can make it an appropriate method of choice
for airplane conceptual design.

-  Go to the page of :doc:`references for the WingBody <wingbodyrefs>`
   program.
-  Go to the :doc:`download page <wingbodydownload>` to download the
   WingBody program and sample cases.



Last updated: 13 July 2017 by Ralph Carmichael, `pdaerowebmaster AT
gmail DOT com <mailto:pdaerowebmaster@gmail.com>`__

.. container:: crumb

   :doc:`PDAS Home <index>` > :doc:`Contents <contents16>` >
   WingBody

.. container:: newbanner

   Public Domain Aeronautical Software (PDAS)  
